jOrgan Troubleshooting Guide

Q1 - What should I do with downloaded zip files?
A1 - A zip file is a compressed collection of other files. You have to use a zip program like WinZip to extract these files to an arbitrary location of your computer. On Windows the directory 'c:\Program Files\jOrgan' should be appropriate, further answers will refer to this directory with <jOrgan-installation-directory>.

Q2 - WinZip complains that jOrgan-xy.zip is corrupted.
A2 - In jOrgan-xy.zip you'll find all files (see A3) that are needed to run jOrgan. Please download the zip file once again.

Q3 - When I double-click the file jOrgan.jar, I am asked what to do with that file.
A3 - jOrgan runs on Windows, Linux and Os X. To be able to support all these operation systems jOrgan is based on a Java Runtime Environment (JRE). Please make sure that you have a JRE installed on your computer, this will enable you to use many other programs written in Java (see http://www.java.com).

Q4 - I double-click the file jOrgan.jar but nothing happens.
A4 - Verify that a 1.4.1 compatible (or newer) JRE is installed. Open a command shell and enter 'java -version' to see your current Java version (output should look similar):
	java version "1.5.0"
	Java(TM) 2 Runtime Environment, Standard Edition (build 1.5.0-b64)
	Java HotSpot(TM) Client VM (build 1.5.0-b64, mixed mode)	

Q5 - My Java version is sufficient but still nothing happens.
A5 - Please ensure that you've extracted (see A1) all files contained in jOrgan-xy.zip to the correct location:
	/<jOrgan-installation-directory>
	   jOrgan.jar
	   /lib
              core.jar
	      swingx.jar
	      spin.jar
              jh.jar
	   /docs
	      gpl.txt
              authors.txt
              troubles.txt

Q6 - jOrgan show an empty online help and the instructions tab stays empty.
A6 - [Online help is currently under development and will hopefully be published Mai 2005]
Online help and instrucations are avialable as separate downloads. Please ensure that you've extracted (see A1) all files contained in jOrgan-xy-docs.zip to the correct location:
	/<jOrgan-installation-directory>
	   /docs
	      help.zip
              instructions.zip

Q7 - I'm not able to select a skin for the console of my organ.
A7 - Skins are avialable as separate downloads, e.g. skin-classic-xy.zip. Please ensure that you've extracted (see A1) the contained zip file to the correct location:
	/<jOrgan-installation-directory>
	   /skins
	      classic.zip

Q8 - jOrgan doesn't support my expander, sound card or sampler.
A8 - Extensions for special SoundSources are avialable as separate downloads, e.g. sound-creative-xy.zip. Please ensure that you've extracted (see A1) the contained zip file to the correct location:
	/<jOrgan-installation-directory>
	   /lib
	      creative.jar
              creative.dll

Q9 - Where do I find answers to further questions?
A9 - Please consult the online help (see A6) or post your questions on http://jorgan.sourceforge.net/forum.
